+++
title = 'Application performance determined by architecture'
date = 2024-08-10T00:00:00-07:00
draft = false
categories = []
tags = ["performance", "architecture", "application", "product", "infrastructure"]
cover_image='/images/cover/knoxwelle__2017-05-21T220002.000Z.jpg'
+++
The architecture of an application determines its performance. Although this claim appears clear at first glance, practical experience indicates otherwise. Software architects, for instance, frequently think that application performance issues can be resolved by simply moving to a different software infrastructure manufacturer. This notion could have its roots in the noise surrounding test results; for instance, claims that the leading company's product performs 25% better than its closest rival's could be the cause of this belief. However, given the overall low performance, which stems from architectural inefficiencies, the stated 25% (one millisection) means relatively little if the competition product completes the operation in 4 milliseconds and the leading product completes it in 3 milliseconds.

Other groups of people, like the developers' support service and the authors of the books on app performance management, advise you to perform the subtle configuration of the application's infrastructure, such as experimenting with memory allocation operations, connectivity pool sizes, flow pool sizes, and so forth, in addition to IT managers and performance testing teams. However, no minor change will produce the required speed and scalability if the application is not built effectively enough for the anticipated demand or if its functional architecture leverages computer resources incorrectly. It will be necessary to completely rework the deployment strategy and/or internal logic.

At the end of the day, distributed data processing and physical patterns are the same underpinnings of every manufacturer's product and application's architecture. Applications and the products they use operate as processes on low-power computers, interacting with one another through stacks of protocols and communication channels with non-zero delays. Therefore, individuals need to realize and accept that the primary determinant of an application's performance and scalability is its architecture. Neither magic—that is, changing technologies in a magical way—nor infrastructure tweaking will be able to increase these quality attributes.