+++
title = 'Business runs everything'
date = 2024-05-17T00:00:00-07:00
draft = false
categories = []
tags = ["software", "technical", "business", "development", "architect", "management", "decisions"]
cover_image='/images/cover/knoxwelle__2017-01-04T173648.000Z.jpg'
+++
When it comes to the creation of corporate software applications, the architect should serve as a sort of intermediary within the organization between the technical and business communities, representing and defending the interests of each while frequently mediating disputes and letting the business run its operations. The commercial goals of the organization and its external environment must inform the architect's technological decisions.

A software development company typically plans and advertises the intended return on investment (ROI) prior to starting a software development project. This signal must be accepted by the architect, along with the ensuing restrictions on the product's value for the business.This will assist in avoiding technological solutions that can result in exorbitant costs. When discussing the technical architecture and implementation with the development team, as well as when interacting with management (in the process of figuring out how to strike a balance between the cost and benefit of a given function), the return rate ought to play a significant role in the overall target context. Specifically, in front of the development team, the architect must speak for the company and refuse to select a technology that would incur unreasonably large license and support expenses throughout the product's testing or real-world use.

Providing adequate qualitative information about the steps involved in product creation so that business management may make well-informed judgments is one of the difficulties that comes when everyone's business is dominated.Here, transparency is crucial. The project manager and the architect should develop and enhance the process for getting timely, frequent feedback. Applying a variety of lean software development strategies, such as frequent releases of functional product versions, big, visible diagrams, continuous integration, and early project transfer to business management, can help accomplish this goal.

Since software development is fundamentally a design activity, decisions must be made continuously until the ready-made system is implemented. Developers naturally make a lot of decisions, most of which have little to do with the problem's economic aspect. However, business management actually leaves business decision-making to the developers themselves, to the extent that it fails to fulfill its obligations by failing to provide guidance, respond to inquiries from the development team, and make business decisions. The architect must provide a macro framework for the present micro-decisions made by developers, sharing details about the software architecture and business objectives while safeguarding them. It should also guarantee that commercial decisions are not made by coders. Distinguishing technical decisions from business commitments, realities, and expectations—all of which the business party should consistently express while working on the project—reduces them to speculation and frequently results in wasteful spending of limited resources.

When the business is in charge, the development team's interests are best served in the long run.