+++
title = 'Investigate the topic'
date = 2024-07-11T00:00:00-07:00
draft = false
categories = ["i"]
tags = ["monday", "friday", "architecture", "business", "architect", "insurance", "objectives"]
cover_image='/images/cover/knoxwelle__2017-02-14T215327.000Z.jpg'
+++
A proficient software architect possesses expertise not only in technology but also in the domain of the problem that needs to be resolved. In the absence of this information, it is challenging to comprehend the business side of the assignment, goal, and specifications of the organization; consequently, it is challenging to create an efficient architecture that satisfies the demands of the business.

Understanding the business's problems, goals, and needs in order to translate them into a technical architectural solution that satisfies them is the responsibility of the software architect. Understanding the issue helps the architect choose which patterns to use, how to schedule expansions in the future, and how to consider market trends to better prepare for change. For instance, workflow-based design works well in certain contexts (such as the insurance industry) and service-oriented architecture in others (such as the financial markets). Selecting the architectural patterns that best suit the unique requirements of the firm requires knowledge of the relevant field.

Having an understanding of current business trends in a certain field aids in the architect's design process. For instance, "on demand" vehicle insurance, where customers pay for coverage only during actual driving, is becoming more and more popular in the insurance industry. If you leave your car at the airport on Monday morning, travel to work, come back on Friday, and then drive home, this kind of insurance is really handy. It is possible to plan for these changes in the architecture even if your employer has not yet included them in its business model; this is made possible by being aware of them.

Creating an effective arch texture also requires an understanding of corporate objectives. Does the company you work for, for instance, intend to grow through significant mergers and acquisitions? The sort of arch texture to be designed may depend on the response to this query.In the event that the response is affirmative, the architecture might require a high degree of abstraction in order to make it easier for business logic components to combine. A key component of any business plan that aims to increase a company's market share through online presence development is likely to be high availability. It is the architect's responsibility to be aware of the company's objectives and to continuously assess how well the architecture serves those purposes.

The most successful architects I know are those who have a solid understanding of a certain subject area along with a wide range of practical expertise in the technical arena. They are able to converse in a language they are proficient in with both the management and the clients.The client is then more assured that the architect is competent as a result of this. Having ownership over the subject matter enables the architect to have a deeper understanding of the tasks, issues, objectives, information, and procedures—all of which are crucial components in the creation of a successful enterprise-level architecture.