+++
title = 'There may be several solutions'
date = 2024-05-25T00:00:00-07:00
draft = false
categories = []
tags = ["philip k. dick", "data", "world", "time", "system", "organization"]
cover_image='/images/cover/knoxwelle__2023-01-10T110354.000Z.jpg'
+++
A single data model, communication format, transport mechanism, and typically a single fundamental architectural element, policy, principle, etc., cannot adequately address every facet of a corporate organization. It appears that the system developers are perpetually surprised and saddened by this fact. It makes sense, though, that the organization—which is denoted here by the thick red line—must be too big and diverse to manage a single table, given that it is large enough to worry about the impact of multiple tables of accounts on the system over the course of the next ten years.

It's also quite practical for us. Nonetheless, the contentious, complex, unofficial, and unsettling actual world of business is involved.Even worse, you have to deal with people's perceptions of particular situations in specific regions of the world rather than the actual world.Of course, you might attempt to approach this as a technical problem and present one answer at a time. But according to Philip K. Dick, reality is "what doesn't disappear when you stop believing in it," and as a firm grows, issues will resurface. Thus, corporate data teams dedicate all of their (expensive) time to putting a stop to existential terror by juggling DTD1. 

Why not acknowledge that there are inconsistencies in the world and work to stop the emergence of several contradictory concepts, services, and solutions? Yes, the technical expert inside each of us shudders in fear at hearing those words. Nightmarish images flash into our minds: haphazard updates, needless maintenance expenses, groups of addicts that need to be controlled...However, let's draw on some practical knowledge from the data storage industry. Data fairs, sometimes known as data marts, frequently exhibit denormalization (in a relational sense), arbitrarily combine calculated and imported values, and present data in ways that are significantly different from those found in the source databases. Simultaneously, the existence of the data's dysfunctional features does not spell calamity.E L-process1 is located at the boundary between two entirely distinct worlds, which are often data operations and analytical processing, with their distinctive variations in update and sampling frequencies, bandwidth, the frequency of changes in structure, and, potentially, even in volume.This is the crux of the problem: the border that allows for the actual organization of the management of disharmonized representations is formed by sufficiently substantial disparities in the non-functional aspects of the system.

Naturally, you shouldn't do duplicate presentations or come up with other modes of transportation purely for amusement. However, you should constantly keep in mind that the system's breakdown into non-functional aspects can present advantageous chances for developing a variety of solutions that will assist your clients.