+++
title = 'Use quantitative criteria'
date = 2024-06-21T00:00:00-07:00
draft = false
categories = []
tags = ["ms.", "system", "criteria", "time", "users", "compliance"]
cover_image='/images/cover/knoxwelle__2020-02-16T030054.000Z.jpg'
+++
You can't make "fast" a prerequisite. In addition to having a fast reaction time.alternatively, "expandable." The primary cause is the absence of impartial standards for fulfilling these obligations.Users nevertheless require these features. Ensuring that the system has the required attributes and balancing the inevitable contradictions that occur between them are the tasks of the architect. Without objective standards, the developer's fixation with obsessive concepts (“No, the program is not ready; it isn't working fast enough”) and the architect's whims (“No, I can't accept the program; it doesn't work fast enough”) are what the architect counts on.

Usually, we make an effort to record all such requests along with any additional specifications. However, this entry frequently appears to be a collection of hazy adjectives, such as "flexible," "friendly to accompany," and so forth. But with some effort, all of these parameters—including "ease of use"—may be quantified in terms of numbers, for which thresholds can be established.If this is not done, developers will lose helpful recommendations that they may refer to while working, consumers will lose objective grounds for adopting the system, and the architects' vision for the system would become less clear.

Pose basic queries like "how much" How long will this last? How often?  In what time frame?  rises or falls? How fast? You cannot know what the customer needs if you are unable to provide a response. If the solutions are absent from the system's economic model, you'll need to consider your options carefully.Consider why the customer has not provided you with these numbers, if you are working on system architecture. After that, you'll obtain them. Ask them where the additional users are coming from and why the system should be scalable the next time someone says this to you.Inquire as to the number and timing of it. You should not be content with the responses "many" and "almost."

It is best to set ambiguous quantitative criteria as a range, with lowest, norm, and maximum values. It is unclear what behavior the system must exhibit if such an interval cannot be specified.You can verify that the system still falls within allowable deviations while you work on the architecture by testing it for compliance with these requirements. Variations in the way that specific criteria are being met over time offer insightful information.It takes time and money to figure out these intervals and check the system for compliance. It is conceivable that this indication has no significance at all if no one is interested enough in the system's performance (nor its features nor its definition) to pay for performance testing.When designing an architecture, concentrate on the system's features that are worthwhile.

"User input must be processed by the system in less than 1500 milliseconds. The average response time at a standard load (defined as...) should be in the range of 750 and 1250 ms. Users do not perceive a reaction time of less than 500 ms, thus if it falls short of this cutoff, payment will not be made.However, this could be considered necessary.